<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook V3.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN" [
 <!ENTITY kcron "<application>kcron</application>">
]>
<book lang="en">
<bookinfo>
<title>The KCron Handbook</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Gary</firstname>
<surname>Meyer</surname>
<affiliation><address><email><ulink url="mailto:gary@meyer.net">gary@meyer.net</ulink></email></address></affiliation>
</author>
</authorgroup>
<date>Version 0.6, November 1, 1999</date>
<releaseinfo><!-- information about this particular version --></releaseinfo>
<abstract>
<para>This Handbook describes KCron Version 0.6</para>
<para></para><!-- Merge this with the previous paragraph; it comes from <META NAME="description" CONTENT="..."> --></abstract>
<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<sect1 id="description">
<title>Description</title>

<para>KCron is an application for scheduling programs to run in the background.
It is a graphical user interface to cron, the Unix system scheduler.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="acknowledgements">
<title>Acknowledgements</title>

<para>KCron was initially based upon kcrontab developed by 
<ulink url="mailto:michael@quinto.ruhr.de">Michael Bialas</ulink>
and documented by
<ulink url="mailto:klemm@abacus.at">David Klemm</ulink>.</para>

<para>KCron acknowledges 
<ulink url="mailto:paul@vix.com">Paul Vixie</ulink> for vixie-cron.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="license">
<title>License</title>

<para>KCron is distributed under the GNU GPL2 license.  See the <literal remap="tt">COPYING</literal> file
included with the distribution.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="feedback">
<title>Feedback</title>

<para>I hope you find this program useful.  Any suggestions or comments
would be appreciated.</para>

<para><literal remap="tt">Gary Meyer</literal></para>

<para><ulink url="mailto:gary@meyer.net">gary@meyer.net</ulink></para>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="howtoobtainkcron">
<title>How to obtain KCron</title>

<para>With <ulink url="http://www.kde.org">KDE</ulink> 2.x,
KCron is distributed as part of the <literal remap="tt">kdeadmin</literal> package.</para>

<para>The most recent stable source code release can be found on the 
<ulink url="http://24.8.19.113/kcron.html">KCron homepage</ulink>.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>In order to successfully compile KCron, you need the following libraries:</para>

<para>- <ulink url="http://www.troll.no/qt/">Qt</ulink> 1.44 or higher.</para>

<para>- <ulink url="http://www.kde.org">KDE</ulink> 1.1.1 or higher.
KCron requires several libraries in the <literal remap="tt">kdelibs</literal> package.</para>

<para>- Cron, such as vixie-cron.  KCron uses the <literal remap="tt">crontab</literal> command to
modify user's scheduled tasks.</para>

<para>- POSIX-compliant Unix, such as provided by glibc.  KCron uses some standard
Unix system calls for localization of dates and times.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilationandinstallation">
<title>Compilation and installation</title>

<para>In order to compile and install KCron on your system, first edit
<literal remap="tt">Makefile.am</literal> making any necessary modifications for KDE 1.x vs.
KDE 2.x.
<literal remap="tt">Makefile.am</literal> describes and provides examples of any modifications you
might need to make.</para>

<para>Second, type the following in the base directory of the KCron distribution:
<screen> 
% ./configure 
% make 
% make install 
</screen>
</para>

<para>Please inform the <ulink url="mailto:gary@meyer.net">author</ulink>
of any modifications you had to make to get KCron to compile on your platform.
Please include operating system, compiler, Qt, and KDE version information
in your message.</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="onscreenfundamentals">
<title>Onscreen Fundamentals</title>

<sect1 id="startup">
<title>Start Up</title>

<para>When KCron starts you will see a summarized view of scheduled tasks and
associated environment variables.  If you are running as the <literal remap="tt">root</literal>
user, you will see these items for all users on the computer as well
as the system scheduled tasks.  Each of the folders can be expanded
and contracted.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Scheduled Tasks</emphasis></para>

<para>Scheduled tasks appear under a "<emphasis remap="bf">Tasks</emphasis>" folder.
For each scheduled task, the following are displayed:</para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">Name</emphasis></para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">Value</emphasis>: Program file and parameters</para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">Description</emphasis>: Natural language description of schedule</para>

<para>If a task has been disabled, no program file and parameters will appear and
the description will be "Disabled."</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Environment Variables</emphasis></para>

<para>Environment various appear under a "<emphasis remap="bf">Variables</emphasis>" folder.
For each environment variable, the following are displayed:</para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">Name</emphasis></para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">Value</emphasis></para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">Description</emphasis></para>

<para>If an environment variable has been disabled, no value will appear and the
description will be "Disabled."</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="save">
<title>Save</title>

<para>To save any modifications you have made, select <emphasis remap="bf">File/Save</emphasis> from the menu.
Alternatively you call press the save icon on the toolbar.</para>

<para>If you have made any modifications, the program will prompt you to save
before exiting.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: No changes are actually made until you explicitly save from the menu or
toolbar, or when exiting.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="quit">
<title>Quit</title>

<para>To quit the program, select <emphasis remap="bf">File/Quit</emphasis> from the menu.</para>

<para>If you have made any modifications and have not saved them, the program
will prompt you to save before exiting.</para>

<para>You will be asked,
"Scheduled tasks have been modified.  Do you want to save changes?"</para>

<para>- Answer "<emphasis remap="bf">Yes</emphasis>" to save changes and exit.</para>

<para>- Answer "<emphasis remap="bf">No</emphasis>" to abandon changes and exit.</para>

<para>- Answer "<emphasis remap="bf">Cancel</emphasis>" to continue editing.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="showtoolbar">
<title>Show Tool Bar</title>

<para>If the tool bar is not visible, select <emphasis remap="bf">Options/Show Tool Bar</emphasis>
from the menu.
The tool bar will be displayed and the Show Tool Bar menu item will be 
checked.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="hidetoolbar">
<title>Hide Tool Bar</title>

<para>If the tool bar is visible, select <emphasis remap="bf">Options/Show Tool Bar</emphasis>
from the menu.
The tool bar will no longer be displayed and the Show Tool Bar menu item
will be unchecked.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="showstatusbar">
<title>Show Status Bar</title>

<para>If the status bar is not visible, select <emphasis remap="bf">Options/Show Status Bar</emphasis>
from the menu.
The status bar will be displayed and the Show Status Bar menu item
will be checked.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="hidestatusbar">
<title>Hide Status Bar</title>

<para>If the status bar is visible, select <emphasis remap="bf">Options/Show Status Bar</emphasis>
from the menu.
The status bar will no longer be displayed and the Show Status Bar menu item
will be unchecked.</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="scheduledtasks">
<title>Scheduled Tasks</title>

<sect1 id="createnewscheduledtask">
<title>Create New Scheduled Task</title>

<para>To create a new scheduled task, first select the "<emphasis remap="bf">Tasks</emphasis>" folder.</para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/New</emphasis> from the menu.
Alternatively you can use the right mouse
click menu.  You will see the "<emphasis remap="bf">Edit Task</emphasis>" dialog.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Comment</emphasis></para>

<para>In the "Comment" field, enter a description of the task to schedule.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Program</emphasis></para>

<para>In the "Program" field, enter the name of the program.  You can specify 
either a relative path or absolute path.  If you want to look up the program,
press the "Browse..." button.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Enabled</emphasis></para>

<para>If you want to disable the task, de-select, the "Enabled" check box.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Daily</emphasis></para>

<para>If you want to schedule the task to run daily, select the "Run Every Day"
check box.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Months</emphasis></para>

<para>Check the months to schedule the task.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Days of the Month</emphasis></para>

<para>Check the days of the month to schedule the task.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Days of the Week</emphasis></para>

<para>Check the days of the week to schedule the task.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note:</emphasis> If you select both several days of the month and several days of the
week, the task will run when either condition is met.</para>

<para>For instance, if you
select the 1st and 15th and select Sunday, the program will be run every
1st and 15th of the selected months (regardless of day of week) <emphasis remap="bf">as well as</emphasis>
every Sunday of the selected months (regardless of day of the month.</para>

<para>To run
on a weekday schedule, check all days of the month and the selected days
of the week.</para>

<para>To run on a days of the month schedule, check all days of the
week, and the selected days of the month.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Hours</emphasis></para>

<para>Check the hours to schedule the task.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Minutes</emphasis></para>

<para>Check the minutes to schedule the task.  (KCron does not support scheduling
tasks at more granular than five minute intervals.)</para>

<para>Press the "<emphasis remap="bf">OK</emphasis>" button to continue.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: The scheduled task is not actually
set up until saved.  All modifications can be saved by selecting
<emphasis remap="bf">File/Save</emphasis> from the menu.</para>

<para>Alternatively press the "<emphasis remap="bf">Cancel</emphasis>" button to abandon creating this new task.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="modifyscheduledtask">
<title>Modify Scheduled Task</title>

<para>To modify a scheduled task, first select the task to be modified.  Then
select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Modify</emphasis> from the menu.  Alternatively you can use the right mouse
click menu.  You will see the "<emphasis remap="bf">Edit Task</emphasis>" dialog.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Comment</emphasis></para>

<para>In the "Comment" field, modify the description as needed.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Program</emphasis></para>

<para>In the "Program" field, modify the name of the program as needed.
You can specify either a relative path or absolute path.
If you want to look up the program, press the "Browse..." button.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Enabled</emphasis></para>

<para>If you want to enable the task, select, the "Enabled" check box.</para>

<para>If you want to disable the task, de-select, the "Enabled" check box.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Daily</emphasis></para>

<para>If you want to schedule the task to run daily, select the "Run Every Day"
check box.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Months</emphasis></para>

<para>Check the months to schedule the task.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Days of the Month</emphasis></para>

<para>Check the days of the month to schedule the task.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Days of the Week</emphasis></para>

<para>Check the days of the week to schedule the task.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note:</emphasis> If you select both several days of the month and several days of the
week, the task will run when either condition is met.</para>

<para>For instance, if you
select the 1st and 15th and select Sunday, the program will be run every
1st and 15th of the selected months (regardless of day of week) <emphasis remap="bf">as well as</emphasis>
every Sunday of the selected months (regardless of day of the month.</para>

<para>To run
on a weekday schedule, check all days of the month and the selected days
of the week.</para>

<para>To run on a days of the month schedule, check all days of the
week, and the selected days of the month.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Hours</emphasis></para>

<para>Check the hours to schedule the task.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Minutes</emphasis></para>

<para>Check the minutes to schedule the task.  (KCron does not support scheduling
tasks at more granular than five minute intervals.)</para>

<para>Press the "<emphasis remap="bf">OK</emphasis>" button to continue.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: The modification is not actually
made until saved.  All modifications can be saved by selecting
<emphasis remap="bf">File/Save</emphasis>
from the menu.</para>

<para>Alternatively press the "<emphasis remap="bf">Cancel</emphasis>" button to abandon modifying this scheduled
task.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="deletescheduledtask">
<title>Delete Scheduled Task</title>

<para>To delete a scheduled task, first select the task to be deleted.</para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Delete</emphasis> from the menu.
Alternatively you can use the right mouse
click menu.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: The deletion is not actually made until saved.  All modifications
can be saved by selecting <emphasis remap="bf">File/Save</emphasis> from the menu.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="cutscheduledtask">
<title>Cut Scheduled Task</title>

<para>To cut a scheduled task, first select the task to be cut.  Then
select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Cut</emphasis> from the menu.  Alternatively you can use the right mouse
click menu or tool bar.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: The deletion is not actually made until saved.  All modifications
can be saved by selecting <emphasis remap="bf">File/Save</emphasis> from the menu.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="copyscheduledtask">
<title>Copy Scheduled Task</title>

<para>To copy a scheduled task, first select the task to be copied.</para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Copy</emphasis> from the menu.  Alternatively you can use the right mouse
click menu or tool bar.</para>

<para>Once a scheduled task has been cut or copied, paste will be enabled.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="pastescheduledtask">
<title>Paste Scheduled Task</title>

<para>To paste a scheduled task, first a scheduled task must have already been 
cut or copied to the clipboard.</para>

<para>Then select the "<emphasis remap="bf">Tasks</emphasis>" folder.  Then
Finally select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Paste</emphasis> from the menu.  Alternatively you can use the
right mouse click menu or tool bar.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: The newly pasted task is not actually set up until saved.  All
modifications can be saved by selecting <emphasis remap="bf">File/Save</emphasis> from the menu.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="enablescheduledtask">
<title>Enable Scheduled Task</title>

<para>To enable a scheduled task, first select the disabled task.  (A disabled
task will display "Disabled" in its description.)</para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Enabled</emphasis> from the menu.  Alternatively you can use the
right mouse click menu.</para>

<para>Confirm that the schedule task's program name and parameters as well as
description are displayed.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="disablescheduledtask">
<title>Disable Scheduled Task</title>

<para>To disable a scheduled task, first select the enabled task.</para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Enabled</emphasis> from the menu.  Alternatively you can use the
right mouse click menu.</para>

<para>Confirm that the schedule task's program name and parameters are no longer
displayed and the description "Disabled" is displayed.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="runscheduledtasknow">
<title>Run Scheduled Task Now</title>

<para>To run a scheduled task immediately, first select the task. </para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Run Now</emphasis> from the menu.
Alternatively you can use the right mouse click menu.</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="environmentvariables">
<title>Environment Variables</title>

<sect1 id="createnewenvironmentvariable">
<title>Create New Environment Variable</title>

<para>To create a new environment variable, first select the
"<emphasis remap="bf">Variables</emphasis>" folder.</para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/New</emphasis> from the menu.
Alternatively you can use the right mouse
click menu.</para>

<para>You will see the "<emphasis remap="bf">Edit Variable</emphasis>" dialog.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Variable</emphasis></para>

<para>In the "Variable" field, enter the environment variable name.  You can use
the drop-down list box to select from the most common environment variables
used by scheduled tasks.  Those include:</para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">HOME</emphasis>: To be used instead of the default user's home directory</para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">MAILTO</emphasis>: To send email output to an email address instead of the the user's
default email address.</para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">PATH</emphasis>: To be used to search directories for program files.</para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">SHELL</emphasis>: To be used instead of the user's default value.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: When you change the variable, both the icon, and the comment may
be updated.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Value</emphasis></para>

<para>In the "Value" field, enter the environment variable value.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Comment</emphasis></para>

<para>In the "Comment" field, enter a description for the environment variable, such
as its purpose.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Enabled</emphasis></para>

<para>If you want to disable the environment variable, de-select,
the "Enabled" check box.</para>

<para>If you want to enable the environment variable, select the "Enabled" check
box.</para>

<para>Press the "<emphasis remap="bf">OK</emphasis>" button to continue.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: The environment variable is
not actually set up until saved.  All modifications can be saved by
selecting <emphasis remap="bf">File/Save</emphasis> from the menu.</para>

<para>Alternatively press the "<emphasis remap="bf">Cancel</emphasis>" button to abandon creating this environment
variable.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="modifyenvironmentvariable">
<title>Modify Environment Variable</title>

<para>To modify an environment variable, first select
the "<emphasis remap="bf">Variables</emphasis>" folder.</para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Modify</emphasis> from the menu.
Alternatively you can use the
right mouse click menu.</para>

<para>You will see the "<emphasis remap="bf">Edit Variable</emphasis>" dialog.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Variable</emphasis></para>

<para>In the "Variable" field, change the environment variable name as necessary.
You can use the drop-down list box to select from the most common
environment variables used by scheduled tasks.  Those include:</para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">HOME</emphasis>: To be used instead of the default user's home directory</para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">MAILTO</emphasis>: To send email output to an email address instead of the the user's
default email address.</para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">PATH</emphasis>: To be used to search directories for program files.</para>

<para>- <emphasis remap="bf">SHELL</emphasis>: To be used instead of the user's default value.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: When you change the variable, both the icon, and the comment may
be updated.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Value</emphasis></para>

<para>In the "Value" field, modify the environment variable value as necessary.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Comment</emphasis></para>

<para>In the "Comment" field, enter a description for the environment variable, such
as its purpose.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Enabled</emphasis></para>

<para>If you want to disable the environment variable,
de-select the "Enabled" check box.</para>

<para>If you want to enable the environment variable, select the "Enabled" check
box.</para>

<para>Press the "<emphasis remap="bf">OK</emphasis>" button to continue.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: The environment variable is
not actually set up until saved.  All modifications can be saved by
selecting <emphasis remap="bf">File/Save</emphasis> from the menu.</para>

<para>Alternatively press the "<emphasis remap="bf">Cancel</emphasis>" button to abandon creating this environment
variable.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="deleteenvironmentvariable">
<title>Delete Environment Variable</title>

<para>To delete an environment variable, first select the variable to be deleted.</para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Delete</emphasis> from the menu.
Alternatively you can use the right mouse click menu.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: The deletion is not actually made until saved.  All modifications
can be saved by selecting <emphasis remap="bf">File/Save</emphasis> from the menu.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="cutenvironmentvariable">
<title>Cut Environment Variable</title>

<para>To cut an environment variable, first select the variable to be cut.</para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Cut</emphasis> from the menu.
Alternatively you can use the right mouse click menu or tool bar.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: The deletion is not actually made until saved.  All modifications
can be saved by selecting <emphasis remap="bf">File/Save</emphasis> from the menu.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="copyenvironmentvariable">
<title>Copy Environment Variable</title>

<para>To copy an environment variable, first select the variable to be copied.</para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Copy</emphasis> from the menu.
Alternatively you can use the right mouse click menu or tool bar.</para>

<para>Once an environment variable has been cut or copied, paste will be enabled.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="pasteenvironmentvariable">
<title>Paste Environment Variable</title>

<para>To paste an environment variable, first an environment variable must have already been 
cut or copied to the clipboard.</para>

<para>Then select the "<emphasis remap="bf">Variables</emphasis>" folder.</para>

<para>Finally select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Paste</emphasis> from the menu.  Alternatively you can use the
right mouse click menu or tool bar.</para>

<para><emphasis remap="bf">Note</emphasis>: The newly pasted variable is not actually set up until saved.  All
modifications can be saved by selecting <emphasis remap="bf">File/Save</emphasis> from the menu.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="enableenvironmentvariable">
<title>Enable Environment Variable</title>

<para>To enable an environment variable, first select the disabled variable.
(A disabled variable will display "Disabled" in its description.)</para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Enabled</emphasis> from the menu.  Alternatively you can use the
right mouse click menu.</para>

<para>Confirm that the environment variables's program name and parameters as well as
description are displayed.</para>
</sect1>

<sect1 id="disableenvironmentvariable">
<title>Disable Environment Variable</title>

<para>To disable an environment variable, first select the enabled variable.  (A disabled
variable will display its value and its description.)</para>

<para>Then select <emphasis remap="bf">Edit/Enabled</emphasis> from the menu.  Alternatively you can use the
right mouse click menu.</para>

<para>Confirm that the environment variables's program name and parameters are no longer
displayed and the description "Disabled" is displayed.</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="aboutcron">
<title>About Cron</title>

<para>Please see the following manual pages for more technical information
about cron and crontab, the native Unix system utilities used by
KCron.</para>

<para>- <literal remap="tt">crontab</literal>: Maintain crontab files for individual users.
(Enter "<literal remap="tt">man:crontab(1)</literal>" in KDE Help.)</para>

<para>- <literal remap="tt">crontab</literal> file format: Tables for driving cron.
(Enter "<literal remap="tt">man:crontab(5)</literal>" in KDE Help.)</para>

<para>- <literal remap="tt">cron</literal>: Daemon to execute scheduled commands.
(Enter "<literal remap="tt">man:cron(8)</literal>" in KDE Help.)</para>
</chapter>
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->
